well John hendren joins us live now from
uh Chicago John you've been speaking to
the protesters uh earlier quite a few of
them actually what are they calling for
exactly well the first protest is over
now you wouldn't know it but those are
the remnants of them there but just
about a half an hour ago or so the
protest ended after hundreds and what
looked like probably over a thousand
demonstrators marched through the
streets of Chicago and as I think we're
going to see often this week it was a
wide array of issues they were calling
for uh Reproductive Rights uh lgbtq
issues um and then of course there were
a number who were also protesting
against the war in Gaza and uh unlike
many of the protests we're going to see
later in the week this is one where they
actually uh are outside of the regular
protest zones and they March down
Michigan avue the most iconic Avenue in
Chicago and shut down uh the about a
mile long portion of the city they were
escorted by police it was entirely
peaceful there were as far as we could
tell no arrests but among that crowd
there were there were people who were
who were calling for a broad array of
issues and of course Gaza was a big one
and this is a a quote from one of those
that we spoke to on that
issue what brings you here yeah yeah so
my dad immigrated here from Palestine
when he was 18 I've known the occupation
and the hardships that Palestinians have
had to face throughout the years since
1948 leading up till now the you know uh
genocide happening in Gaza and so I'm
here today to do whatever I can in
whatever capacity I can for the people
the innocent people by 40,000 innocent
people who are dying right now in Gaza
and you're here protesting at the
Democratic National Convention is that
safe to say that you won't be voting for
Comm Harris yeah I would say as of right
now my vote is not with KLA Harris um I
hope that that could change um I'm
somebody who's open um to always having
their mind changed I think what it comes
down to is whether or not you're going
to take a legitimate stance against a
country that's acting out and the whole
world sees that that's why we have a un
un and so when America goes against the
UN and systematically vetos various
treaties and various positions that the
whole world wants to see that call for a
permanent ceasefire in Gaza right now so
no more women and children die I I think
that it's important that kamla back that
and until she can do that um Jill Stein
will will have my vote and Jill Stein is
with the green party so a third party
and you were saying earlier you think
it's important that third parties uh in
the US grow yeah exactly I don't agree
with all um that the green party has on
its on its uh plate but that said I also
don't think the green party you know
legitimately has a chance at this stage
in 2024 to beat the DNC or RNC but that
that said I think it's important that we
make this our year to start putting our
efforts into other parties so that way
we can build those up over time and
hopefully that they have a chance that's
true democracy having more candidates on
the ballots for voters to choose not for
big machine political parties to
choose and John just moving now to uh
tomorrow where we're expecting uh to see
uh 4 days of this uh convention we know
that Harris has been formally now she
will be formally declared as the
Democratic nominee what else are we
expecting over these next 4
days well these 4 days are really a
celebration of the democratic party for
the viewers out there on television and
it's an opportunity for those delegates
in the Democratic party to sort of get
their moment in the sunshine but all the
formal business has really taken place
normally in the old days before when a
convention happened like this it would
be at the convention that the ultimate
nominee was elected and that the
delegates would vote for them this time
they've done that in advance by a roll
call that was virtual so when they
announc kamla Harris and Tim Walls will
be the nominees on Tuesday that will
have already all taken place and it will
really just be an opportunity for
speaker after speaker to anoint the next
person that they hope will be president
of the United States and in this case of
course it would be the first black woman
president it would be the first South
Asian President and there will be a
number number of speakers first of all
on Monday Joe Biden gets his due he will
speak and then it's the first lady and
the second Gentleman on Tuesday who will
speak as well we expect Barack Obama
Hillary Clinton Bill Clinton and of
course ultimately kamla Harris and Tim
Walls to cap off this 4-day celebration
of the democratic party and what they're
hoping to do is have viewers back the
party learn what kamla Harris stands for
because of course she's only been in the
race a number of weeks and then we'll be
motivated to vote for them uh so in the
end kamla Harris will accept but it's
really a surprise to nobody in a party
for the television
viewers well thanks John hendin there
live for us from Chicago of course we'll
be covering this extensively here over
the next few days on aljazera we're
still ahead
here make sure to subscribe our channel
to get the latest news from aler